Hello and welcome back to the course on deep learning in today's tutorial we're going to talk about
over complete hit and Lares.
But before we start I wanted to mention that this tutorial and next couple of terms are going to be
quick because they are very kind of overview high level tutorials on different types of encoders and
curves are quite a powerful technique or method in deep learning and they are popular and there are
lots of variations of our encoders and we unfortunately couldn't go into detail and depth into all of
them.
But instead what we're going to do is we're going to show you the underlying concepts and principles
of these variations and point you at specific papers and blogs and articles that you can read if you
want to upscale on certain one of certain types of articles at the same time.
Even these high level overuse will give you some very valuable insights and awareness about the different
types of our encounters that exist and you'll be able to not only when you see them recognize them but
also you will be able to operate with the terms with their names easily and and you won't be caught
of guard when you come across them in literature or in different types of works that you'll be studying
or performing.
So that's the first thing that we talk about is over complete hidden layers.
This is a underlying concept in a lot of or most of the variations of our encounters.
So let's have a look.
So here we've got an hour and quarter for input values to nodes in the hidden lair and four nodes in
the output.
The question is here what if we wanted to increase the number of nodes in the hidden lair.
What if we wanted actually to have more nodes in the hidden lair than in the input there.
Something like this.
And the obvious question is here like why why would we do it.
But the answer is Why not.
We said that and on and out and color can be used as a feature extraction tool.
But what if we want more features.
Remember in artificial neural networks it was very easy for us to do.
We had a certain number of inputs then we could have a whole layer of whatever number of inputs and
nodes we wanted it could be six it could be 10 it could be 100 doesn't matter.
We could have as many as we want we could add more letters and so on.
But the point was we weren't restricted to how many nodes would have in here and there.
And that allowed us to extract more features and that would be great in the case of an auto encoder
as well given that we are advocating it as a feature extraction tool.
But we have a problem.
If we were to do this obviously the encoder can cheat the OT encoder.
This goal is to get the outputs the outputs to equate to the inputs.
As soon as you give it 4 or more hidden nodes in case you have four.
Basically as soon as you give it a hidden layer which is the same size or greater than the input layer
it just basically is able to cheat and just say all right this note is always going to be equal to this
node.
And then this node is equal to this not so information is going to fly through like that and then you'll
even have some extra nodes that are not being used.
And that could be the end process and state that this encoder would end up in after the training and
it's going to be just useless is not going to extract any valuable information any valuable features
for us through that process.
So this is definitely a problem.
And how are we going to solve that problem.
Oh that's what we're going to look at the next couple of tutorials we're going to look at three different
approaches that are used to solve that problem.
And therefore three different variations of iron cutters.
So let's proceed with the next tutorial and I will see you there.
Until next time.
Enjoyed learning.